Restructuring Expressions (#697)
neo4j/docs-cypher: modules/ROOT/pages/queries/expressions.adoc

= Cypher expressions

This page contains examples of allowed expressions in Cypher.

[NOTE]
====
Most expressions in Cypher evaluate to `null` if any of their inner expressions are `null`.

> Notable exceptions are the operators `IS NULL`, `IS NOT NULL`, and the type predicate expression.

Reviewer: Should type predicate expressions be a link?

Notable exceptions are the operators `IS NULL`, `IS NOT NULL`, and the xref:values-and-types/type-predicate.adoc[type predicate expressions].

> ====

Reviewer 2: I think this is quite a subtle remark. I'd move it at least to the bottom of `General`.

[[general]]
== General

> * A variable: `n`, `x`, `rel`, `myFancyVariable`, `++`A name with weird stuff in it[]!`++`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A variable: `n`, `x`, `rel`, `myFancyVariable`, `++`A name with special characters in it[]!`++`.
```

> * A property: `n.prop`, `x.prop`, `rel.thisProperty`, `++myFancyVariable.`(weird property name)`++`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A property: `n.prop`, `x.prop`, `rel.thisProperty`, `++myFancyVariable.`(special property name)`++`.
```

(I just felt like the word weird was ... weird :P

Author: haha - yeah

* A dynamic property: `n["prop"]`, `rel[n.city + n.zip]`, `map[coll[0]]`.
* A parameter: `$param`, `$0`.
* A list of expressions: `['a', 'b']`, `[1, 2, 3]`, `['a', 2, n.property, $param]`, `[]`.
* A function call: `length(p)`, `nodes(p)`.

> * An aggregate function: `avg(x.prop)`, `+count(*)+`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* An aggregate function call: `avg(x.prop)`, `+count(*)+`.
```

* A path-pattern: `+(a)-[r]->(b)+`, `+(a)-[r]-(b)+`, `+(a)--(b)+`, `+(a)-->()<--(b)+`.
* An operator application: `1 + 2`, `3 < 4`.

> * A subquery expression.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A subquery expression: `COUNT {}`, `COLLECT {}`, `EXISTS {}`, `CALL {}`.
```

* A regular expression: `a.name =~ 'Tim.*'`.

> * A `CASE` expression.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A `CASE` expression: `CASE WHEN...`
```

Felt nice to me to see some examples but not necessary ofc :)

[NOTE]
====

> Using regular expressions with unsanitized user input makes you vulnerable to Cypher injection.

Reviewer: I mean, this is true of any unsanitized user input 🤔

```suggestion
Using regular expressions with unsanitized user input may make your application vulnerable to Cypher injection.
```

Using regular expressions with unsanitized user input may make your application vulnerable to Cypher injection.
Consider using xref:syntax/parameters.adoc[parameters] instead.

> ====

Reviewer 2: Why do we have this note on regexes? Unsanitized user input is bad in all expressions, not just regexes. I don't understand what information we're trying to convey here.

Reviewer 2: @gem-neo4j any reason why it should stay?

Reviewer: This came from this card: https://trello.com/c/u2A4QRdw/468-regex-escape-clarification to do with security issues, so, yes unsanitized user input is bad in all expressions, so perhaps this could be broadened instead of just removed?

Reviewer 2: Yeah, and also link to the KB article you co-authored!

[[numerical]]
== Numerical

* A decimal (integer or float) literal: `13`, `-40000`, `3.14`.
* A decimal (integer or float) literal in scientific notation: `6.022E23`.
* A hexadecimal integer literal (starting with `0x`): `0x13af`, `0xFC3A9`, `-0x66eff`.
* An octal integer literal (starting with `0o`): `0o1372`, `-0o5671`.

> * A float literal: `Inf`, `Infinity`, `NaN`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A numeric (`INTEGER` or `FLOAT`) literal: `13`, `-40000`, `3.14`.
* A numeric (`INTEGER` or `FLOAT`) literal in scientific notation: `6.022E23`.
* A hexadecimal `INTEGER` literal (starting with `0x`): `0x13af`, `0xFC3A9`, `-0x66eff`.
* An octal `INTEGER` literal (starting with `0o`): `0o1372`, `-0o5671`.
* A `FLOAT` literal: `Inf`, `Infinity`, `NaN`.
```

I'm a little hesitant to use the word decimal here if at any time we were to introduce a specific numeric type called `DECIMAL`

[NOTE]
====

> Any number literal may contain an underscore `_` between digits.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any numeric literal may contain an underscore `_` between digits.
```

There may be an underscore between the `0x` or `0o` and the digits for hexadecimal and octal literals.
====

[[string]]
== String

* A string literal: `'Hello'`, `"World"`.

> * A case-sensitive string matching expression: `a.surname STARTS WITH 'Sven'`, `a.surname ENDS WITH 'son'` or `a.surname CONTAINS 'son'`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A`STRING` literal: `'Hello'`, `"World"`.
* A case-sensitive `STRING` matching expression: `a.surname STARTS WITH 'Sven'`, `a.surname ENDS WITH 'son'` or `a.surname CONTAINS 'son'`.
```

[[expressions-string-literals]]
=== String literal escape sequences

String literals can contain the following escape sequences:

[options="header", cols=">1,<2"]
|===================
|Escape sequence|Character
|`\t`|Tab
|`\b`|Backspace
|`\n`|Newline
|`\r`|Carriage return
|`\f`|Form feed
|`\'`|Single quote
|`\"`|Double quote
|`\\`|Backslash
|`\uxxxx`|Unicode UTF-16 code point (4 hex digits must follow the `\u`)
|===================

[[boolean]]
== Boolean

* A boolean literal: `true`, `false`.
* A predicate expression is an expression that returns `true` or `false`: `a.prop = 'Hello'`, `length(p) > 10`, `a.name IS NOT NULL`.

> * Label and relationship type expressions: `(n:A|B)`, `()-[r:R1|R2]->()`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A`BOOLEAN` literal: `true`, `false`.
* A predicate expression is an expression that returns a `BOOLEAN` value, `true`, `false` or `null`: `a.prop = 'Hello'`, `length(p) > 10`, `a.name IS NOT NULL`.
* Label and relationship type expressions: `(n:A|B)`, `()-[r:R1|R2]->()`.
```

> * A predicate expression is an expression that returns a `BOOLEAN` value, `true`, `false` or `null`: `a.prop = 'Hello'`, `length(p) > 10`, `a.name IS NOT NULL`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* A predicate expression (i.e. an expression that returns a `BOOLEAN` value): `a.prop = 'Hello'`, `length(p) > 10`, `a.name IS NOT NULL`.
```

Reviewer 2: @gem-neo4j `null` belongs to all types, am I correct?

Reviewer: Yep, it does :) but it might be good to explicitly say null here so it is clear that null is included?

Reviewer 2: Yeah that's a tricky one. (And we transition a bit from being pedagogical and developer friendly to reading into people's minds.) 
What I don't like of mentioning it in booleans only is that it leads to think that `null` _only_ belongs to booleans. For me it would definitely make sense to have `null` as a separate list item in all sections.

--

PS. What I didn't like about the wording of predicate expressions is that it felt out of place. In my mind, the section reads:
> A boolean is ...
> - ... a boolean literal
> - ... a predicate expression is an expression that returns a boolean value
> - ... label and rel type expressions

and I thought ... why is the second point there (mostly due to the double `is`)? It took me a second to realize that it was not describing something _else_, but that, while it was introducing something else, that object was also part of the list.

> * Label and relationship type expressions: `(n:A|B)`, `()-[r:R1|R2]->()`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Label and relationship type expressions: `(n:A|B)`, `+()-[r:R1|R2]->()+`.
```
Basing on the General section, this should avoid `->` to be transformed into an arrow.
